Add Storybook showcase helpers and a Figma component skill (#75693)
metabase/metabase: .claude/skills/metabase-ui-component-from-figma/SKILL.md

---
name: metabase-ui-component-from-figma

> description: Update or build a Metabase design-system component (frontend/src/metabase/ui — Chip, Badge, Alert, Switch, etc.) to match a Figma spec described in a Linear issue. Use when a ticket asks to restyle an existing `metabase/ui` component or implement a new one from Figma. Covers: checking out the issue, mapping the component (usage/blast radius for an existing one, or scaffolding a new one), building a Storybook showcase matrix (before styling for existing components, after for new ones), styling from exact Figma tokens while iterating with the user, and committing + migrating call sites LAST.

Reviewer: If I'm not mistaken, in order to allow loading another skill through this one you need to include the following line in the header, specifically `Skill`:
`allowed-tools: Read, Grep, Bash, Glob, Skill`

(this is what I was told by Codex when I've asked it to do a review for the skills I've recently introduced).

Author: I think this only determines [whether CC will ask your permission or not](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/skills#pre-approve-tools-for-a-skill)

Reviewer: Still, worth to add right away, imo. But maybe the worthiness can be double-checked by trying to use the skill for another component first.

- **Create a new component** — nothing equivalent exists anywhere yet. Rarer. The risk is *API design*, so you scaffold the component and its public surface first.

Phases 1, 2, 5 and 6 are shared. The middle two differ in **order**: update mode builds the showcase (Phase 3) *before* styling (Phase 4); create mode does the reverse — implement and style first, then build the showcase as the last step — because there's nothing to render until the component exists.

---

## Phase 1 — Check out the issue

1. Fetch the Linear issue with the Linear MCP `get_issue`.
2. Pull from it:
   - **Figma link(s)** — extract the `node-id` (`?node-id=250-13588` → `250-13588`) and `fileKey` (the `/design/<fileKey>/…` segment).
   - **`gitBranchName`** — switch to it if not already there.
   - **The component's intended API** — variants, sizes, and states the design system supports for this component. This defines the axes of your showcase (Phase 3).

> 3. Decide the mode. Does the component already exist anywhere — in `frontend/src/metabase/ui/components/**/<Component>/`, or as a legacy component under `frontend/src/metabase/common/components/` (or elsewhere)? If so → **update** mode (a legacy component still counts; the ticket migrates it into `metabase/ui`). Only if nothing equivalent exists → **create** mode. Confirm with the user when unsure — a similarly-named primitive may already exist under a different group or name.

Reviewer: This is probably too detailed since almost the same information is already present above in `Two modes` section.

## Phase 2 — Understand the component

### Mode: update an existing component

> 1. Locate the component dir under `frontend/src/metabase/ui/components/<group>/<Component>/` (typically `Component.config.ts` or `Component.tsx`, `Component.module.css`, `Component.stories.tsx`, `index.ts`). A ticket may also be **migrating a legacy component** from `frontend/src/metabase/common/components/` into `metabase/ui` — if it still uses Emotion styled-components, reach for the **emotion-migrate** skill.

Reviewer: Again, not sure we need to reiterate those paths.
```suggestion
1. Locate the component dir (typically containing `Component.config.ts` or `Component.tsx`, `Component.module.css`, `Component.stories.tsx`, `index.ts`). A ticket may also be **migrating a legacy component**  — if it still uses Emotion styled-components, reach for the **emotion-migrate** skill.
```

2. Map every usage across `frontend/src` and `e2e` (JSX `<Component`, sub-components like `Component.Group`, and wrapper components).

> 3. Write findings to **`local/<TICKET>-<component>-usage-findings.md`** (`local/` is gitignored), one entry per usage: code location (`file:line`), short context, and **non-standard usage** (excessive customization, inline styling, invalid/legacy props). Invalid props are a signal that call sites will need migrating in Phase 6. This doc **stays** — the user walks it at the end to verify each real usage still looks right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Write findings to **`local/<TICKET>-<component>-usage-findings.md`**, one entry per usage: code location (`file:line`), short context, and **non-standard usage** (excessive customization, inline styling, invalid/legacy props). Invalid props are a signal that call sites will need migrating in Phase 6. This doc **stays** — the user walks it at the end to verify each real usage still looks right.
```

### Mode: create a new component

1. Decide whether it wraps a Mantine primitive (most common — extend it via a `.config.ts` using `<Mantine>.extend({...})` and theme registration) or is bespoke. Prefer wrapping Mantine.
2. Scaffold the component dir + its public surface: `Component.tsx`/`Component.config.ts`, `Component.module.css`, `Component.stories.tsx`, `index.ts`, and wire the export through the group barrel and the `metabase/ui` barrel.
3. There are no call sites to map yet; instead note the intended usage from the ticket so the eventual showcase reflects real props.
4. **Order note:** for a new component, implement and style it (Phase 4) first, *then* build the showcase (Phase 3) to present the finished result — there's nothing to render until it exists. The phases below are written update-first; just run 4 before 3 in create mode.

## Phase 3 — Build the Storybook showcase

Goal: one story that shows **every state at a glance**, themeable, suitable as a Loki visual-regression test. **Update mode: build this before Phase 4, while the old styles are still in place. Create mode: do this after Phase 4**, once the component exists to render.

### Reusable showcase helpers

> Use the shared, Storybook-only primitives in **`frontend/src/metabase/ui/stories/showcase/`**: `StoryShowcase` (titled panel), `StorySection`, `StoryRow`, and `StoryJsx` (monospace JSX with light syntax highlighting via `tokenizeJsx`). Extend the set only when a new pattern is genuinely reusable.

Reviewer: Probably, worth adding a code example of how a finalized story looks like (looking at other skills, seems that those can be beneficial).

2. **Land your per-cell hook on the root via the factory's root-props slot** (e.g. `wrapperProps`), because Mantine forwards top-level `data-*`/rest props to an inner element, not the root. Check the component's `.d.ts` for the right slot.

The addon toolbar toggle keeps working independently (it forces every rule in the story).

### Story conventions

- Keep an interactive default story plus the matrix story.
- Restrict `argTypes` to the supported API (e.g. only the sizes the DS uses).
- **Scope controls per story.** A static matrix should hide knobs it ignores: `parameters.controls = { include: [...] }` (or `{ disable: true }`). Wire any kept knob (e.g. `children`) through to the cells so it does something.
- `loki.config.js` has a `storiesFilter`; check it before renaming a story that's already covered.

Validate: `bun run lint-eslint-pure -- <files>` and `bun run type-check-pure`.

### Optional: verify in the browser yourself

> If a browser-driving MCP is connected (e.g. **chrome-devtools-mcp**: `navigate_page`, `take_screenshot`, `take_snapshot`, `evaluate_script`, `resize_page`), use it to check your own work against the running Storybook (`http://localhost:6006/iframe.html?id=<story-id>`, the kebab-cased title + story). Screenshot for a visual read; `evaluate_script`/`take_snapshot` to confirm DOM facts (a hook landed on the root, pseudo classes applied, a resolved `--mb-color-*`). This is a **convenience, never a requirement** — without it, rely on the user's visual check (and you may suggest installing the plugin). Storybook is usually already running; don't start it. (Screenshot writes may be sandboxed to the repo root — save under `local/` then `mv`.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a browser-driving MCP is connected (e.g. **chrome-devtools-mcp** or **playwright-mcp**: `navigate_page`, `take_screenshot`, `take_snapshot`, `evaluate_script`, `resize_page`), use it to check your own work against the running Storybook (`http://localhost:6006/iframe.html?id=<story-id>`, the kebab-cased title + story). Screenshot for a visual read; `evaluate_script`/`take_snapshot` to confirm DOM facts (a hook landed on the root, pseudo classes applied, a resolved `--mb-color-*`). This is a **convenience, never a requirement** — without it, rely on the user's visual check (and you may suggest installing the plugin). Storybook is usually already running; don't start it. (Screenshot writes may be sandboxed to the repo root — save under `local/` then `mv`.)
```

Pause here and let the user look. Iterate on layout/spacing only — **no component style changes yet.**

## Phase 4 — Style the component from Figma

Now change the component's `.config.ts` / `.module.css`. Get **exact tokens from Figma** — never eyeball hex from a screenshot.

> ### Figma desktop MCP is required for tokens

Reviewer: Not everyone uses Figma desktop app (i.e. me) for MCP, so I'm not sure we need this section at all. You should probably rephrase it somewhere earlier that connected Figma MCP is required for this skill.

Author: Figma's remote MCP doesn't work for this task, it doesn't expose required tools

Reviewer: understood, then we probably need to specify it higher as a required tool

`get_screenshot` works by `nodeId`, but `get_variable_defs`, `get_design_context`, and `get_metadata` read the **current selection in the Figma desktop app** via the **Dev Mode MCP server**. If they error with "nothing selected" or the server isn't connected, **prompt the user** to enable the Dev Mode MCP server (Switch to Dev Mode → MCP section in right sidebar) and select the relevant layer(s). Don't pixel-sample a screenshot as a substitute.

### Extract and map tokens

1. `get_metadata` on the spec frame for the node id + name of each variant/size/state symbol.
2. `get_variable_defs` per symbol for exact colors, spacing, radius, font.

> 3. `get_design_context` (forceCode) on one symbol for exact CSS dimensions (padding, gap, icon size). It may ask about Code Connect — skip that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. `get_design_context` (forceCode) on one symbol for exact CSS dimensions (padding, gap, icon size).
```
Too specific, never saw this.

Author: Figma injects text promoting their Code Connect into MCP responses, it at best pollutes Claude responses and at worst derails session

Reviewer: alright, then probably worth keeping

> 4. **Use the semantic token names `get_variable_defs` returns.** An up-to-date spec binds each property to a semantic token (a role like `text/hover`, `background/selected`); match it to the corresponding `--mb-color-*` key (key list: `frontend/src/metabase/ui/colors/types/color-keys.ts`) and use it directly — one definition then works in both themes. Sanity-check the resolved shade against `colors/constants/themes/light.ts` / `dark.ts` and `base-colors.ts`. Caveat: returned *values* may be the wrong mode for dark symbols — trust the variable **names**, not the dark hex.

Reviewer: Probably worth showing a warning if any kind of discrepancies between Figma and codebase are spotted.

Reviewer: Just noticed, you have a similar section below, but yours seems a bit too specific. Although, if you think those cover the same thing, you can skip this comment.

Author: > you have a similar section below, but yours seems a bit too specific

I'm not sure I understand what you mean here

Reviewer: I've meant that `Color rules` section below warns against incorrect color values and matching, but what if a completely new color token is encountered in Figma? If I misread these rules and this case is covered, just disregard my comment. I'm not too familiar with Figma's tooling, but thought it could also trigger a warning.

Author: > completely new color token is encountered in Figma

All semantic colors are already in codebase, so if there is new token in Figma that warrants at least manual review by implementor (and maybe check with design team)

3. Leave the findings doc in place for the user's manual verification pass.

---

## Checklist

- [ ] Linear issue fetched; Figma node/fileKey + `gitBranchName` extracted; on the right branch; mode (update vs create) decided.
- [ ] **Update:** usage + blast radius in `local/<TICKET>-<component>-usage-findings.md`; behavior locked with unit tests **if** the component has custom interactive logic (skip for thin Mantine wrappers / pure restyles). **Create:** component scaffolded with its public surface and barrel exports.
- [ ] Storybook showcase matrix built from the component's full state space (theme excluded — global toggle drives light/dark), single panel, hover/pressed forced via `storybook-addon-pseudo-states`, controls scoped per story; lint + type-check pass. (Update mode: built before styling, **component styles untouched**. Create mode: built after the component is implemented in Phase 4.)

> - [ ] Figma desktop MCP available; exact tokens extracted and mapped to semantic `--mb-color-*` (NO `color-mix`, NO primitives — flag gaps to the user).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Figma MCP available; exact tokens extracted and mapped to semantic `--mb-color-*` (NO `color-mix`, NO primitives — flag gaps to the user).
```

Author: same as above, it has to be desktop mcp, I tried using remote MCP and it didn't had tools

End-to-end workflow for bringing a `metabase/ui` (Mantine) component in line with a Figma design, driven by a Linear ticket. The phases are **ordered on purpose** — story before styling, styling before commit. Do not reorder them.

The golden rule: **build the Storybook showcase while the component still has its old styles, and only start changing component styles once the showcase exists.** The showcase is how you (and the user) judge the restyle at a glance and is a candidate visual-regression test.

This is a frontend task — also load **typescript-write** (and **typescript-review** before handing off). Worked reference: this skill was distilled from Chip component implementation. Concrete Chip details appear as examples — adapt them per component.

---

## Phase 1 — Check out the issue

1. The user gives a Linear issue (link or `TEAM-1234`). Fetch it with the Linear MCP `get_issue`.
2. From the issue pull:
   - **Figma link(s)** — usually in the description. Extract the `node-id` (e.g. `?node-id=250-13588` → `250-13588`) and `fileKey` (the `/design/<fileKey>/...` segment).
   - **`gitBranchName`** — the branch Linear associates with the issue.

>    - **Requirements** — e.g. "we use the `sm` and `md` sizes" / "the `light` and `filled` variants". These define the axes of your showcase matrix.

Reviewer: I think, if we're going with the matrix approach (which is nice), it's better to make the agent analyze all possible states based on component's props and base the matrix off those, rather that a subset mentioned in the issue.
